[Sol->Yul] Documenting difference in initialization order in case of inheritance (#10497)
ethereum/solidity: docs/ir/ir-breaking-changes.rst

    }

We have the same behavior for implicit delete, for example when array of structs is shortened.

>  * In case of inheritance, order of initialization has changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * The order of contract initialization has changed in case of inheritance.
```

> Before order was:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The order used to be:
```

Reviewer: Maybe we also need to mention that before the 3 items, all state variables are 0?

Author: I will add that as well. I was just thinking that it shold derive from fact that storage is always zeroed out :) But, better to mention anyway

>  - Evaluate arguments from most derived to most base contract

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Evaluate base constructor arguments from most derived to most base contract.
```

>  - Initialize all state variables in whole inheritance hierarchy from base to derived

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Initialize all state variables in the whole inheritance hierarchy from most base to most derived.
```

>  - Run constructor for all contracts in hierarchy from base to derived

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Run the constructor, if present, for all contracts in the linearized hierarchy from most base to most derived.
```

New order:

>  - Evaluate arguments from most derived to most base contract

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - Evaluate base constructor arguments from most derived to most base contract.
```

>  - For every contract in order from base to derived execute:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - For every contract in order from most base to most derived in the linearized hierarchy execute:
```

>  - For every contract in order from base to derived execute:

Reviewer: I think here we also have to say that all state variables are 0 at the start.

>      1. Init state variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     1. Initialize state variables as 0 or assigned value, if present at declaration.
```

>      2. Constructor

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     2. Constructor, if present.
```

> This makes differences in some contracts, for example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This causes differences in some contracts, for example:
```

::
    // SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0
    pragma solidity >0.7.0;

    contract A {
        uint x;
        constructor() {
            x = 42;
        }
        function f() public returns(uint256) {
            return x;
        }
    }
    contract B is A {
        uint public y = f();
    }

> In old order of inheritance y will be set to 0. This is due to fact that we first initialize state variables, so it will set x to 0, and when initializing y, f() would return 0, so y will also be 0 as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, ``y`` would be set to 0. This is due to the fact that we would first initialize state variables: First, ``x`` is set to 0, and when initializing ``y``, ``f()`` would return 0 causing ``y`` to be 0 as well.
```

> In new order of inheritance y will be set to 42. We first initialize x to 0, than call constructor for A which sets x to 42. Than when initializing y, f() returns 42, so y will be 42.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the new order of inheritance ``y`` will be set to 42. We first initialize ``x`` to 0, then call A's constructor which sets ``x`` to 42. Finally, when initializing ``y``, ``f()`` returns 42 causing ``y`` to be 42.
```

    }

We have the same behavior for implicit delete, for example when array of structs is shortened.

 * The order of contract initialization has changed in case of inheritance.

The order used to be:

>  - Evaluate base constructor arguments from most derived to most base contract.

Reviewer: Shouldn't we also say that all state variables are 0 before this? This is important in case you call internal functions that read state variables

Author: Added

 - Initialize all state variables in the whole inheritance hierarchy from most base to most derived.
 - Run the constructor, if present, for all contracts in the linearized hierarchy from most base to most derived.

New order:

>  - All state variables are zeroes at the beginning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - All state variables are zeroes at the beginning.
```

>  - All state variables are zeroes at the beginning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - All state variables are zero-initialized at the beginning.
```

 - Evaluate base constructor arguments from most derived to most base contract.
 - For every contract in order from most base to most derived in the linearized hierarchy execute:

>      1. Initialize state variables as 0 or assigned value, if present at declaration.

Reviewer 2: Are they really initialized to ``zero`` again here? They are already zero from the first bullet point... so maybe this is rather just
```suggestion
     1. State variables are assigned value their initial values, if present at declaration.
```

I almost said the distinction is not relevant, but actually it is - what does the following do?

```
contract A {
  uint public x;
  constructor(uint) {}
  function f() public { x = 4; }
}
contract B is A {
  constructor() A(f()) {}
}
```

Is ``A.x()`` zero or four here? The current formulation here suggests that first the base arguments are evaluated, settin g ``x`` to ``4``, but then afterwards it's "initialized" back to zero... my suggestion would have it be ``4`` instead...

Also interesting, but independent of the formulation here:

```
contract A {
  uint public x = 5;
  constructor(uint) {}
  function f() public { x = 4; }
}
contract B is A {
  constructor(uint) A(f()) {}
}
contract C is B {
   uint y;
   function g() public { y = x; }
   constructor() B(g()) {}
}
```
Here ``x`` would be ``4`` for the duration of base constructor argument evaluation (after the call to ``f``), so ``y`` would end up being ``4``, but in the end ``x`` will be ``5``, right :-)?

Reviewer 2: So to be clear: if in the first snippet above ``x`` ends up actually being ``zero``, then my point is mute and the PR is fine ;-).

Author: I think you are actually right. Adding such test and if ends up as You said will update documentation as well.

Reviewer: Yes, the distinction is relevant, and they're not reassigned to 0. When I wrote that the first bullet point wasn't there yet :p

     2. Constructor, if present.

This causes differences in some contracts, for example:
::
    // SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0
    pragma solidity >0.7.0;

    contract A {
        uint x;
        constructor() {
            x = 42;
        }
        function f() public view returns(uint256) {
            return x;
        }
    }
    contract B is A {
        uint public y = f();
    }

Previously, ``y`` would be set to 0. This is due to the fact that we would first initialize state variables: First, ``x`` is set to 0, and when initializing ``y``, ``f()`` would return 0 causing ``y`` to be 0 as well.

> In new order of inheritance ``y`` will be set to 42. We first initialize ``x`` to 0, then call A's constructor which sets ``x`` to 42. Finally, when initializing ``y``, ``f()`` returns 42 causing ``y`` to be 42.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the new rules, ``y`` will be set to 42. We first initialize ``x`` to 0, then call A's constructor which sets ``x`` to 42. Finally, when initializing ``y``, ``f()`` returns 42 causing ``y`` to be 42.
```

    }

We have the same behavior for implicit delete, for example when array of structs is shortened.

 * The order of contract initialization has changed in case of inheritance.

The order used to be:
 - All state variables are zero-initialized at the beginning.
 - Evaluate base constructor arguments from most derived to most base contract.
 - Initialize all state variables in the whole inheritance hierarchy from most base to most derived.
 - Run the constructor, if present, for all contracts in the linearized hierarchy from most base to most derived.

New order:
 - All state variables are zero-initialized at the beginning.
 - Evaluate base constructor arguments from most derived to most base contract.
 - For every contract in order from most base to most derived in the linearized hierarchy execute:

>      1. State variables are assigned value their initial values, if present at declaration.

Reviewer 2: ``State variables are assigned value their initial values`` should be ``State variables are assigned their initial values`` - I think that was me not being careful enough with the suggestion :-)... I'll just create a PR fixing it myself...

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/ethereum/solidity/pull/10503
